mcp-server/README.md, before:

# ScPL MCP Server

Model Context Protocol server for creating macOS Shortcuts using ScPL (Shortcuts Programming Language).

## Features

- **Create Shortcuts**: Convert ScPL code to .shortcut files
- **Validate Syntax**: Check ScPL code without creating files
- **Discover Actions**: Browse 294 available actions with descriptions
- **Documentation**: Access action reference and examples

## ⚠️ Shortcut Signing

Generated .shortcut files may need to be signed before macOS will allow you to run them.

**Options:**
1. **Apple Developer Account**: Sign shortcuts with your developer certificate
2. **Shortcut Source Tool** (free alternative): If you don't have a developer account, you can use [Shortcut Source Tool](https://routinehub.co/shortcut/5256/) to import and sign shortcuts

**Disclaimer**: We are not associated with Shortcut Source Tool or its creator. Use third-party tools at your own risk. Always review shortcuts before running them.

## Installation

### Option 1: Global Installation (Recommended)

```bash
npm install -g scpl-updated-mcp-server
```

Then register with Claude Code:

```bash
claude mcp add scpl-shortcuts npx scpl-updated-mcp-server
```

### Option 2: Local Development

```bash
cd mcp-server
npm install
chmod +x index.js
```

Register with Claude Code:

```bash
claude mcp add scpl-shortcuts /Users/cav/dev/shortcuts/scpl-updated/mcp-server/index.js
```

## Tools

### `create_shortcut`

Create a macOS Shortcut from ScPL code.

**Parameters:**
- `scpl_code` (required): The ScPL code to convert
- `output_name` (required): Name for the .shortcut file
- `output_dir` (optional): Output directory (defaults to ~/Downloads)

**Example:**
```json
{
  "scpl_code": "Text \"Hello World\"\nShowResult",
  "output_name": "HelloWorld",
  "output_dir": "~/Desktop"
}
```

### `validate_scpl`

Validate ScPL code syntax without creating a file.

**Parameters:**
- `scpl_code` (required): The ScPL code to validate

**Example:**
```json
{
  "scpl_code": "GetClipboard\nShowResult"
}
```

### `list_actions`

List available ScPL actions with descriptions.

**Parameters:**
- `category` (optional): Filter by category (e.g., "Scripting", "Files")
- `search` (optional): Search term to filter actions

**Example:**
```json
{
  "category": "Scripting",
  "search": "shell"
}
```

## Resources

### `scpl://actions/tahoe`

Documentation for 22 new macOS Tahoe actions.

### `scpl://examples`

Example shortcuts demonstrating various ScPL features.

## Usage with Claude Code

Once registered, Claude can create shortcuts for you:

```
Claude, create a shortcut that:
1. Gets text from clipboard
2. Asks ChatGPT to improve it
3. Copies the result back to clipboard
```

Claude will:
1. Write the ScPL code
2. Validate the syntax
3. Create the .shortcut file
4. Provide installation instructions

## Usage with Claude Skill

The included `/create-shortcut` skill provides a guided experience:

```
/create-shortcut
```

Then describe what you want your shortcut to do.

## ScPL Syntax Quick Reference

```scpl
# Comments
# Single-line comments start with #

# Text and Output
Text "Hello World"
ShowResult "My Result"
ShowAlert title="Title" message="Message"

# Variables
SetVariable v:myVar
GetVariable v:myVar

# Clipboard
GetClipboard
SetClipboard

# Apple Intelligence (Apple Silicon only)
AskLLM model="Apple Intelligence" prompt="Your prompt here"

# ChatGPT (requires app installed)
Text "Your question"
AskChatGPT

# Shell Scripts (Intel & Apple Silicon)
RunShellScript shell="/bin/zsh" script="echo 'Hello'"

# Files (Intel & Apple Silicon)
GetFile path="~/Desktop"
SaveFile path="~/Documents/file.txt"

# Conditionals
If condition="Equals" value="test"
    ShowResult "Match!"
Otherwise
    ShowResult "No match"
End If

# Menus
ChooseFromMenu items=["Option 1", "Option 2"]
Case "Option 1"
    Text "You chose 1"
Case "Option 2"
    Text "You chose 2"
End Menu

# Loops
RepeatWithEachItem
    ShowResult
End Repeat
```

## Examples

### Simple Notification

```scpl
Text "Hello from ScPL!"
ShowResult
```

### AI Text Improver

```scpl
GetClipboard
SetVariable v:originalText

AskLLM model="Apple Intelligence" prompt="Improve this text for clarity: \\(v:originalText)"
SetClipboard
ShowAlert title="Done" message="Improved text copied to clipboard"
```

### Shell Script Runner

```scpl
RunShellScript shell="/bin/zsh" script="sw_vers"
ShowResult "macOS Version"
```

### File Counter

```scpl
GetFile path="~/Desktop"
Count
ShowResult "Files on Desktop"
```

## Troubleshooting

### "Command not found: scpl-updated-mcp-server"

Make sure you installed globally:
```bash
npm install -g scpl-updated-mcp-server
```

### "Error: Cannot find module 'scpl-macos-updated'"

The MCP server depends on scpl-macos-updated. Ensure it's installed:
```bash
npm list -g scpl-macos-updated
```

### "Permission denied"

Make the script executable:
```bash
chmod +x index.js
```

### ScPL Validation Errors

Check the error message for line numbers and syntax issues. Common mistakes:
- Forgetting to close `If` with `End If`
- Forgetting to close `Menu` with `End Menu`
- Using wrong parameter names (use `list_actions` to check)
- Missing quotes around text values

## Contributing

Found a bug or want to add features? See [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

MIT - Same as scpl-macos-updated

Commit message:

Fix MCP server and update signing workflow
Based on testing, updated to correct implementation:

MCP Server fixes:
- parse() returns Buffer directly, not object with shortcutData
- Changed default output to ~/Documents (not Desktop)
- Updated success message with signing instructions

Signing workflow updates:
- Document Shortcut Source Helper drag-and-drop workflow
- Add one-time setup instructions
- Include all 3 required shortcuts (Helper, Tool, Builder)
- Update both MCP README and Claude skill

The correct flow is:
1. Install Shortcut Source Helper + dependencies
2. Add Helper to Dock
3. Drag .shortcut file onto Helper
4. Follow prompts to sign and install

mcp-server/README.md, after:

# ScPL MCP Server

Model Context Protocol server for creating macOS Shortcuts using ScPL (Shortcuts Programming Language).

## Features

- **Create Shortcuts**: Convert ScPL code to .shortcut files
- **Validate Syntax**: Check ScPL code without creating files
- **Discover Actions**: Browse 294 available actions with descriptions
- **Documentation**: Access action reference and examples

## ⚠️ Shortcut Signing & Installation

Generated .shortcut files need to be signed before macOS will allow you to run them.

### Recommended: Use Shortcut Source Helper (Free)

**Setup (one-time):**
1. Install required shortcuts from RoutineHub:
   - [Shortcut Source Helper](https://routinehub.co/shortcut/10060/)
   - [Shortcut Source Tool](https://routinehub.co/shortcut/5256/)
   - [Tinycut Builder](https://routinehub.co/shortcut/5217/)
2. Add **Shortcut Source Helper** to your Dock for easy access

**To install a generated shortcut:**
1. Drag and drop the `.shortcut` file onto Shortcut Source Helper in your Dock
2. Follow the prompts to sign and import
3. The shortcut will be added to your Shortcuts app and ready to use!

### Alternative: Apple Developer Account

If you have an Apple Developer account, you can sign shortcuts with your developer certificate.

**Disclaimer**: We are not associated with Shortcut Source Tool/Helper or their creators. Use third-party tools at your own risk. Always review shortcuts before running them.

## Installation

### Option 1: Global Installation (Recommended)

```bash
npm install -g scpl-updated-mcp-server
```

Then register with Claude Code:

```bash
claude mcp add scpl-shortcuts npx scpl-updated-mcp-server
```

### Option 2: Local Development

```bash
cd mcp-server
npm install
chmod +x index.js
```

Register with Claude Code:

```bash
claude mcp add scpl-shortcuts /Users/cav/dev/shortcuts/scpl-updated/mcp-server/index.js
```

## Tools

### `create_shortcut`

Create a macOS Shortcut from ScPL code.

**Parameters:**
- `scpl_code` (required): The ScPL code to convert
- `output_name` (required): Name for the .shortcut file
- `output_dir` (optional): Output directory (defaults to ~/Documents)

**Example:**
```json
{
  "scpl_code": "Text \"Hello World\"\nShowResult",
  "output_name": "HelloWorld",
  "output_dir": "~/Desktop"
}
```

### `validate_scpl`

Validate ScPL code syntax without creating a file.

**Parameters:**
- `scpl_code` (required): The ScPL code to validate

**Example:**
```json
{
  "scpl_code": "GetClipboard\nShowResult"
}
```

### `list_actions`

List available ScPL actions with descriptions.

**Parameters:**
- `category` (optional): Filter by category (e.g., "Scripting", "Files")
- `search` (optional): Search term to filter actions

**Example:**
```json
{
  "category": "Scripting",
  "search": "shell"
}
```

## Resources

### `scpl://actions/tahoe`

Documentation for 22 new macOS Tahoe actions.

### `scpl://examples`

Example shortcuts demonstrating various ScPL features.

## Usage with Claude Code

Once registered, Claude can create shortcuts for you:

```
Claude, create a shortcut that:
1. Gets text from clipboard
2. Asks ChatGPT to improve it
3. Copies the result back to clipboard
```

Claude will:
1. Write the ScPL code
2. Validate the syntax
3. Create the .shortcut file
4. Provide installation instructions

## Usage with Claude Skill

The included `/create-shortcut` skill provides a guided experience:

```
/create-shortcut
```

Then describe what you want your shortcut to do.

## ScPL Syntax Quick Reference

```scpl
# Comments
# Single-line comments start with #

# Text and Output
Text "Hello World"
ShowResult "My Result"
ShowAlert title="Title" message="Message"

# Variables
SetVariable v:myVar
GetVariable v:myVar

# Clipboard
GetClipboard
SetClipboard

# Apple Intelligence (Apple Silicon only)
AskLLM model="Apple Intelligence" prompt="Your prompt here"

# ChatGPT (requires app installed)
Text "Your question"
AskChatGPT

# Shell Scripts (Intel & Apple Silicon)
RunShellScript shell="/bin/zsh" script="echo 'Hello'"

# Files (Intel & Apple Silicon)
GetFile path="~/Desktop"
SaveFile path="~/Documents/file.txt"

# Conditionals
If condition="Equals" value="test"
    ShowResult "Match!"
Otherwise
    ShowResult "No match"
End If

# Menus
ChooseFromMenu items=["Option 1", "Option 2"]
Case "Option 1"
    Text "You chose 1"
Case "Option 2"
    Text "You chose 2"
End Menu

# Loops
RepeatWithEachItem
    ShowResult
End Repeat
```

## Examples

### Simple Notification

```scpl
Text "Hello from ScPL!"
ShowResult
```

### AI Text Improver

```scpl
GetClipboard
SetVariable v:originalText

AskLLM model="Apple Intelligence" prompt="Improve this text for clarity: \\(v:originalText)"
SetClipboard
ShowAlert title="Done" message="Improved text copied to clipboard"
```

### Shell Script Runner

```scpl
RunShellScript shell="/bin/zsh" script="sw_vers"
ShowResult "macOS Version"
```

### File Counter

```scpl
GetFile path="~/Desktop"
Count
ShowResult "Files on Desktop"
```

## Troubleshooting

### "Command not found: scpl-updated-mcp-server"

Make sure you installed globally:
```bash
npm install -g scpl-updated-mcp-server
```

### "Error: Cannot find module 'scpl-macos-updated'"

The MCP server depends on scpl-macos-updated. Ensure it's installed:
```bash
npm list -g scpl-macos-updated
```

### "Permission denied"

Make the script executable:
```bash
chmod +x index.js
```

### ScPL Validation Errors

Check the error message for line numbers and syntax issues. Common mistakes:
- Forgetting to close `If` with `End If`
- Forgetting to close `Menu` with `End Menu`
- Using wrong parameter names (use `list_actions` to check)
- Missing quotes around text values

## Contributing

Found a bug or want to add features? See [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

MIT - Same as scpl-macos-updated
